Book 3, page 30 and 31

“If, at some point in your life, you should come across anything better than justice, honesty, self-control, courage - than a mind satisfied that is has succeeded in enabling you to act rationally, and satisfied to accept what’s beyond its control…”- here there are two things that we can draw a direct parallel: 1. A girl on whom I can trust and with whom I genuinely enjoy spending my time; and 2. my own purpose. 

The latter is arguably not what he means here by “anything better than justice…” To some extent, I think that he really means to follow with what is “good,” rational, and correct. I think that figuring out what I was born to do and how I think I should go about is, indeed, part of “achieving the goodness that is uniquely yours.”

But, the author is very dead, so I included it on the list. If we were to exclude it, then the only thing that might get in my way is a girl that is genuinely lovely in all regards presented previously. I really hope that I’ve already met such a girl, but I intent to commit to such action only after I’ve “done [my] homework first.” Indeed, I have to ensure that she is capable of understanding what I’m after and of supporting me in my path. There are people like that in the world, but I must “[do my] homework first.” 

In other words, you’ve been really excited lately, which has been pressuring you to rush some shit. Do not rush. Let it flow as naturally as the stream of the river. If it must be, then the path will show itself naturally. If not, then that means that, as Marcus wisely put, “… don’t make room for anything but [the goodness that is uniquely yours] - for anything that might lead you astray, tempt you off the road, and leave you unable to devote yourself completely… It would be wrong for anything to stand between you and attaining goodness - as a rational being and a citizen … So make your choice straightforwardly, once and for all, and stick to it.”

I choose to love a girl whom I can trust, whose company I enjoy wholeheartedly, to whom I am passionate/admire, and who has the ability to understand my needs and support my projects. That’s the reason why I truly live, if only Little Gui is concerned. However, Little Gui is not the only one is the party. I must not fall off my project’s path, for it is my unique path to goodness and how I will fulfil my carnal duty, my reason to exist. In order to conciliate, the latter point that I made about “the girl” is of utmost relevance: she must understand and support the project, for I will  not and must not be led astray by any woman (no matter the trust, no matter the company’s enjoyment, no matter the passion/admiration). 

The goal is to find that girl, finish the project, and then do as Marcus says: “enjoy [the extraordinary thing] to the full.”
