List examples of negative influences from your parents or family members em in the following areas: work, money, gifts and talents, spirituality, relationships (love, family, and friends), and health. 


Work: Both my parents always worked really hard. When I was very little, my parents were young and did not have any constructed assets in their lives. However, they believed that providing the basic for me and my brother was simply not enough to see us happy and achieve everything that we would dream of. For this reason, my parents worked a lot. The more they did it, the more they got sucked into it. Requiring money is no excuse, of course, for their lack of balance. Nonetheless, that is the justification: they needed more money and they needed it fast. So, work was forged to me as a battle. Everyday, you must go out to work yourself to the bone from morning to late evening, often without breaks. I was taught at a very young age that this has a lot of virtue and is the correct or honorable way of working. Anything but your full attention, an absolute obsession, would be an underperformance, hence leading to instability and the threat of losing all which you have. That's another important point. I was taught to believe that if one doesn't obsess over work, then one loses one's job leading also to the loss of basic income and threatening survival. Work is survival, so to not obsess is to leave room for the risk of not surviving... a risk that must never be taken. For this reason, giving anything up is justifiable in the name of work. Yeah, it's not a very healthy or growth mindset, but it's what I was taught back then. 

Money: the solution and the problem. The perpetual drive for chase and where souls are lost. My parents needed it more than anything and they chased it more than anything. A lot of it was in me and my brother's name, but, of course, the ego plays a large role in these situations as well. Very early on, I was shown by my parents that money solves a lot of issues and brings, for all intents and purposes, happiness. Shortly after, they divorced... and it was a pretty bad divorce. My parents and I were quite happy when we didn't have any money. Suddenly, we have plenty and everything turns into havoc? It was clear to me that, even though money wasn't the main leading reason for the divorce, the pursuit of status and power through money brought my parents very far from who they truly were in their essence, making them unrecognizable over time. Though young, that much was pretty obvious to me. Therefore, I learned that: 1. Money is indeed a problem solver, which also makes it an issue logistically; and 2. Mindless chase for money makes you lose your soul and your blinds you to your essence. Nonetheless, my mind was so set that "living was working" that all of this only meant that I didn't have to worry about money because I would work myself to the bone regardless. In a way, it gave me tranquility, but it also fueled the anxiety and stress that came with the idea of "work" already established in my mind. 

Gifts and talents: bury them. Life doesn't work like that. You don't just get to be born doing something well and hence making a living out of that. This is for "actors and footballers," and you're an ordinary kid. This was HEAVILY reinforced by my school, Colegio Cruzeiro, shortly after the 7 year-old period. The only things that matter in this world are the chase for the "absolute truth" and the spoils that come from exploiting such truths. In other words, one must force oneself to be good at whatever is it that will make them their living easily. Gifts and talents are just pretty things that may or may not be useful for that purpose. That's what I learned early on. If you find yourself in a position that you are not, in fact, talented or gifted in an activity in which you can pursue the absolute truth (math, science, business, etc.), then you must obsess yourself into work until you get good. 

Spirituality: confusion, denial, and rebelliousness. My parents never gave me a strict spiritual guide, though I was never close-minded. Nonetheless, I was taught early to look at things through logic and to question that which was assumed as truth, especially from the things that my brother would tell me. I hated "the church" (essentially the only symbol of spirituality that I had at that age) because I didn't like doing rites and following doctrines that didn't make any sense to me. The whole thing just felt like a waste of time and, with my parent's lack of engagement, I never had the first step. My family members would tell me to pray to God every now and then, and I would follow through with it because... why not? It usually happened when I was feeling down and it would bring me some peace. That was the case until my brother questioned me about it. Then, I was actively against all deities, for I was provoked into understand that, as a matter of fact, it's very unlikely that there is a bearded old man on the sky dictating all that goes on in our world. This was as large a debate as I had around that age. In other words, I didn't care and I was never pushed to think or consider spirituality from many points of view. 

Relationships:
	Love: hard. A constant battle. A push and pull that never settles. A havoc of family interests mixed with uncertainty of love. The inevitable dismantling of families and destruction of what once was genuine care and passion. 	Pretty much everybody in my family had horrible love lives, so I was raised with horrible examples. Being married or dating meant trouble. It all meant having to deal with somebody that, most of the time, you didn't want to deal	with. 
	Family: though for a lot of love and still always bound to loyalty, still more trouble. Everybody in my family seemed to want to get into each other's way, when viewed from outside. I, in particular, was always very loved by my 	family, so I was raised into a sense of love and loyalty that is most absolute. Nonetheless, I observed many arguments, heated discussion, and conversation of people trying to get into business they were simply not called into.	It always seemed inappropriate to me that this would happen, so I always avoided drama or anybody's business. If I was with my family, I would ignore the bad things and fully enjoy my time with them, but still always avoiding 	certain topics and always being very political... it felt like a game, even.
	Friends: overall, my relationship with my friends were very good, especially back then. I don't think I was pushed to believe a lot of negative things about the concept of friendship. In this aspect, I was mostly free to believe 	and act in whatever way I saw fit. In that sense, it was very nice. I was a charming kid who was always very genuine, so I'd attract true friends. Nonetheless, I always had a stigma about having "too many friends." This wasn't 	necessarily forced upon me by my parents or family - at least not that I can remember - but I do remember thinking that being "popular" was non-sense because there were so many interesting kids around for me to be "popular."	In short, I liked the kids that I liked, and I didn't care about the other ones or even bother exploring much. There was a sense of fragile trust there which is hard to put my finger on, for it feels like it's been there all my 	life. Maybe my parents were just too protective and I felt like I needed to protect myself by choosing my friends carefully. Again, that's more a hypothesis than anything, but it could be the case. 

Health: my parents loved their image. My father was always a commercial man, so he worked with his image. My mother was raised to believe that a woman's body must be perfectly slim, yet perfectly attractive. They both were in a perpetual state (and still are) of chasing an image of themselves that is an idealize perfection of how their body should look like. That's what "health" meant. Live longer? Live better? Forget all that. You have to look good, hence you will be healthy. There are no measures small enough to achieve this and anything and everything that improves your physical traits makes you healthier as a consequences, even surgeries and medicine. Over time, that changed a lot, of course. However, that was the case initially. To put it simply, I was raised to believe that I was fat and, hence, a putrid pig that would die young. They wouldn't say this. My parents were never rude to me, certainly never in this tone, but I would think that about myself because of what they taught me. 
